# Objects

Docker objects can be defined as the 

```
# docker objects
docker <object> ls

# remove an object
docker <object> rm <object-id-or-name>

# gets details of selected objects
docker <object> inspect <object-id-or-name>
```

Docker application can be accessed using the internal IP of the container that was assigend by docker itself, but in order to communicate outside the container, you need to use the portfording. Basically, within the local machine, it would work, but when it comes to accessing outside the machine, you need to use the port forwarding. 

Let understand how objects in docker works in simple words. Docker object, such as Images, Containers, Registry (think like repository)

* You build an **image** and store it in a **registry**.
* You run a **container** from an **image**.
* **Containers** can communicate with each other through **networks**.
* **Volumes** are used to persist data generated by **containers**.

Next, important point is how the data is getting stored inside the docker, in case of mysql, the database still is within the container, and it will be saved inside the /var/lib/mysql. i order to persist the data, we need to use Volume.

<br>
<div style="border-left: 4px solid #007acc; background-color: #f1f6f9; padding: 10px; border-radius: 5px;">
<strong>Note: </strong> Finding out what is the port that is getting used for running the application, use the <code>lsof -i:PORT-NUMBER</code> in order to check the PID of the process, then use <code>kill -9 PID</code>.
</div>
<br>

# Creating Custom Image

Take a default name of the website, `index.html`, but some code inside it, this is a test wensite. 

You need to build a new container if the files needto to changed, becuase docker container ad images are read only, they can't be  changed. 

# Building Microservices

# Docker Orchestration

# Docker node

Remember that the nodes have default port of 2377.



